# CS-360

This project is an inventory management app for Android devices. The app was designed to be easy to use, intuitive, and provide the necessary functionality to maintain on hand counts for a warehouse, business, marketplace, or even personal use. The app is designed to require a login with the ability to register an account. The app maintains login status for ten minutes, and then automatically logs the user out.

The app includes screens specific for logging in, viewing the inventory, adding a new item, and editing an existing item. The app stores data for users and inventory items in an SQLite database. The inventory is presented to the user in a RecyclerView with icons for the activities listed above as well as deleting an item and incrementing and decrementing the on hand count. By placing as much functionality as possible inside the RecyclerView, it was easier to keep the user's access to these functions front and center. The app also requests permission to send SMS messages to send a text message to the currently logged in user when an inventory count reaches zero.

With very little experience coding an Android app before this project, there was a lot of research and exploration to be done while working on this app. I knew pretty early on that I wanted to use a RecyclerView for the inventory display. I had to figure out how to create another view to show the header and add the two views together in a ConcatAdapter to avoid index gymnastics to keep the RecyclerView and ArrayList synced. I decided to also maintain a list of items that had counts changed, been added, deleted, or edited since the app resumed so that I could keep all database writing activity to a minimum. This meant writing out to the database when the app lost focus. Over the course of my time coding different projects, I have always enjoyed figuring out how to do things that I have not tried before. I did that in this project and am sure it will be useful in many projects to come.

To test the app, I loaded it into an Android emulater and onto my personal phone to try to find things that were not working correctly. This was useful for finding bugs and finding ways to fix them. Using Android Studio, it was possible to look into the database and Shared Preferences files that were created to see if data was being saved and loaded correctly. I do still have two issues that need to be addressed. Allowing SMS notifications does not send the SMS that triggered the request for access. Also, hitting back from the login screen when not logged in brings the login screen back up. This keeps the app from being able to be closed except through the app manager or task switching on the device.

I think that my best accomplishments from this project are the reduction of database writes and combining the views in the ConcatAdapter.
